README
------------------------------------
ATMOSPHERE TRANSMISSION SPECTRA SIMULATION PACKAGE
USER GUIDE  Version1.0 M. Creze 06/05/2010

This first tentative delivery of the atmosphere spectra simulation package has been prepared for you
to test in real conditions the portability of the tools.

No significant effort has been spent yet to fully standardize the python modules, but they are in principle
reasonably commented. This will be improved in the next deliveries.

A detailed description of the simulation effort is given in the AtmSpRef_I_V2.0.pdf file
you will find it in the mkatmos/Docs dir , next to the present README. To make short,
producing a set of simulated atmosphere spectra in front of a series of LSST pontings inludes in principle
the following steps
                 1) creating an atmosphere history file , for the calendar period of interest, that is
                     transforming a set of heuristic rules describing the meteo evolution during the period
                     into a list of time  dependant parameter values reflecting this evolution.
                 2) combining the atmosphere history file with a given LSST pointing history file
                     to get a list of parameters which fix the content of the atmosphere column along
                     the telescope line of sight.
                 3) transforming this parameter change list into a ".tp5" file which is the only entry into
                     the rigid MODTRAN system the blackbox that will really compute the radiation
                     transport along the line of sight .
                 4) run MODTRAN4V3R1to get the spectra
                 5) recombine the spectra with the relevant telescope pointing identifiers                          and organize them for easy use.

As by agreement between the APC team and the Calsim collaboration,
- we deliver today only the tools for steps 2) and 3).
-  step 1) will have to wait for the end of the year( the coding of this module is not decent
   for a public exhibition)
-  it is up to you to install Modtran4V3R1 on your machine and run step 4)
-  I have tools which can facilitate step 5) which I will adapt and deliver once I have a first return for this delivery

So you can freely
  - combine the only given atmosphere sequence (meteo.02Atm_history.dat ) with the given lsst pointing
    observation history (Opsim3.61.sel.dat) to produce a _parmlist.dat file  With the program
    MakesequenceV5.1.py
 - combine the same atmosphere sequence with any other lsst observation history scenario
    you can produce (provided it
    provided you jjust respect the template. Opsim3.61.sel is a subset of Opsim3.61 keeping only 1 entry
    out of 300 it contains only 2700 entries or so. Mind that modtran is a complex and lengthy process.
    The current organization of things would not be suitable for a large number of entries (say more
     than 30000 entries) for more  I have tools available to fractionate the task.
  - ask me to deliver different atmosphere sequences based on different meteo scenarios
    (to be agreed upon) and/or to cover other calendar periods.

The package contains

mkatmos/Docs with documentation : This you must read, criticize and comment
                  in the future there will be there a userguide to the modules

mkatmos/Parmfiles : This contains things you must NEVER touch without my permission

mkatmos/SpData : This contains the data I put (AtmosHist, LsstObsHsit) or  will be
                            filled by your action (the other 2)

mkatmos/Toolbox : This contains the python modules  MakesequenceV5.1.py and Makecard2A.py
                            plus some ancilliary utilies which may be called by the former.


You can test them by simply
                 - copying on your own linux machine the whole directory structure starting from
                    mkatmos onwards.

                 - editing the MakesequenceV5.1.py to indicate your local absolute path to the
                     mkatmos dir. You'll find all the .py modules in the mkatmos/Toolbox dir
                 - running MakesequenceV5.1.py which should create a _parmfile with the appropriate
                   filename in  mkatmos/SpData/Runparm

                 - editing the Makecard2A.py to indicate your local absolute path to the
                     mkatmos dir.
                 - running Makecard2A.py which should create a .tp5 file with the appropriate
                   filename in mkatmos/SpData/Opsim3.61.02sel/
                   Mind, if you try new lsst observing histories, you will have to create the corresponding
                    directory in SpData and make the necessary change in MakeCard.


if you do that and get a non empty .tp5 file then it works

if in addition you did instal MODTRAN4V3R1, you can try to run it on the .tp5 file
then you'll get spectra

WARNING*** one key of the success is the Cardtemplate.dat file in mkatmos/Parmfiles
                if it has been manipulated on a windows machine, you'll never be able to use it again
               on a linux machine due to the bloody Ctrl M's
              Makecard2A will conscienciously propagate the disaster to the .tp5 file
              and Modtran will fail. This is certainly obvious to most of you but you don't immediately
              have that in mind when you read the modtran error message :

                     "STOP Error:  Molecular band model data file not found. statement executed"

              where "executed" has the meaning it has for the sentenced to death.

